---
title: "Using clustering, geochemical modeling, and a decision tree for the hydrogeochemical characterization of groundwater in an in situ leaching uranium deposit in Bayan-Uul, northern China"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023-12-8-Using Clustering, Geochemical Modeling, and a Decision Tree for the Hydrogeochemical Characterization of Groundwater in an In Situ Leaching Uranium Deposit in Bayan-Uul, Northern China
excerpt: ''
date: 2023-12-8
venue: 'Water'
paperurl: 'https://www.mdpi.com/2073-4441/15/24/4234'
citation: 'Haibo Li, Mengqi Liu, Tian Jiao, Dongjin Xiang*, Xiaofei Yan*, Zhonghua Tang, <b>Jing Yang</b>. &quot;Using clustering, geochemical modeling, and a decision tree for the hydrogeochemical characterization of groundwater in an in situ leaching uranium deposit in Bayan-Uul, northern China.&quot; <i>Water</i>. 2023, 15(24): 4234. https://www.mdpi.com/2073-4441/15/24/4234'
---
Uranium extraction through the in situ leaching method stands as a pivotal approach in uranium mining. In an effort to comprehensively assess the repercussions of in situ uranium leaching on groundwater quality, this study collected 12 representative groundwater samples within the Bayan-Uul mining area. The basic statistical characteristics of the water samples showed that the concentrations of SO42- and total dissolved solids (TDS) were relatively high. Through the use of cluster analysis, the water samples were categorized into two distinct clusters. Seven samples from wells W-d, W-u, N01, W10-2, W08-1, W10-1, and W13-1, situated at a considerable distance from the mining area, were grouped together. Conversely, five samples from wells W08-2, W13-2, W01-1, W02-2, and the pumping well located in closer proximity to the mining area, formed a separate cluster. A decision tree-based machine learning approach was employed to discern the influence of various hydrochemical indicators in forming these clusters, with results indicating that SO42- exerts the most substantial influence, followed by Ca2+. The mineral saturation indices from geochemical modeling indicated that, as the distance from the mining area increased, the trend of calcium minerals changed from dissolution to precipitation; iron minerals were in a precipitation state, and the precipitation trend was gradually weakening. In light of these findings, it is clear that in situ uranium leaching significantly impacted the groundwater in the vicinity of the mining area. The prolonged consumption of groundwater sourced near the study area, or its use for animal husbandry, poses potential health risks that demand heightened attention.
[Download paper here]

Recommended citation: Haibo Li, Mengqi Liu, Tian Jiao, Dongjin Xiang*, Xiaofei Yan*, Zhonghua Tang, <b>Jing Yang</b>. &quot;Using clustering, geochemical modeling, and a decision tree for the hydrogeochemical characterization of groundwater in an in situ leaching uranium deposit in Bayan-Uul, northern China.&quot; <i>Water</i>. 2023, 15(24): 4234. https://www.mdpi.com/2073-4441/15/24/4234
